Passing the Hash in Windows
As we’ll discover in the next section,
cracking password hashes can be
very time-consuming
and is often not feasible without
powerful hardware.
However, sometimes we can leverage
Windows-based password hashes
without resorting to a laborious
cracking process.
The Pass-the-Hash technique allows an
attacker to authenticate
to a remote target by using a valid
combination of username and hash
rather than a clear text password.
This is possible because LM and NTLM
password hashes are not salted
and remain static between sessions.
Moreover, if we discover a password hash
on one target,
we can not only use it to authenticate
to that target,
we can use it to authenticate to
another target as well,
as long as that target has an account with
the same username and password.
Let’s introduce a scenario to demonstrate
this attack.
During our assessment, we discovered a
local administrative account
that is enabled on multiple systems.
We exploited a vulnerability on one of
these systems
and have gained SYSTEM privileges,
allowing us to dump local LM and
NTLM hashes.
We have copied the hash of a user in the
administrator's group,
and can now use it instead of a password
to gain access to a different machine,
which has the same local administrator
account and password.
To do this, we will use pth-winexe from
the Passing-The-Hash toolkit,
which performs authentication
using the SMB protocol.
As a demonstration, we’ll invoke
pth-winexe on our Kali machine
to authenticate to our target using a
previously dumped password hash.
We’ll gain a remote command prompt on the
target machine
by specifying the user name and hash
separated by a % sign,
along with the SMB share in UNC format
and the name of the command to execute,
which in this case is cmd.
Our command was successful.
Using the captured hash as credentials,
we now have a shell on the target.
Behind the scenes, the format of the NTLM
hash we provided
was changed into NetNTLM format
during the authentication process.
We can capture these hashes using
man-in-the-middle
or poisoning attacks and either
crack them or relay them.